[muffled, ethereal music plays softly]
[ethereal music fades in]
[sharp percussive beats play]
[beats accelerate]
[indistinct shouting]
[grunting]
[cries out]
[complex jazzy music playing]
[music softens]
[shimmering sound]
[men cry out]
[grunting]
[grunts]
[men screaming]
[triumphant laughter]
[gasps]
[ominous music plays]
[shouting and grunting]
[grunts]
-[breathy, swirling sounds]
-[sinister rasping]
[grunts softly]
[grunts]
[ominous music continues]
-[grunts]
-[army roars]
[yells]
[raucous clamoring]
-[swooshing]
-[splattering]
-[ominous thud]
-[dark music plays]
[loud bang]
[raucous clamoring]
[battle sounds fading]
The Dark Army approaches, my lord.
But there is still time for us to escape.
Why do you think he did it?
I offered him land
to last his families a lifetime over.
How could one be so stupid?
Mitsuhide's prejudice grew beyond repair.
Hojo Daimyo warped his mind
and fed his anger
with power and corruption.
[lord] I was referring to me.
[grunts] And look at you, Yasuke.
From servant to samurai.
The only one who didn't betray me.
-[metallic clink]
-We should drink to that.
We do not have time for this.
The Daimyo is going
to bring hell through those doors.
Let them come.
They are the guest of honor
to our little party.
I--
[Nobunaga] Yasuke, take it.
Drink with me. Celebrate this moment.
[raising voice]
What is there to celebrate, my lord?
Your forces are scattered.
Your dream of a unified Japan is gone.
-The temple walls burn as we speak--
-I am still your lord.
If I die here,
perhaps Mitsuhide will let Ranmaru live.
Are you sure he made it out in time?
He was smuggled out
on the last ship, just as you requested.
-Was he afraid?
-No, he was strong.
Good.
Now, all that is left for me
is an honorable death.
My lord, if we barricade the side entrance
and force them to enter through the halls,
we can bottleneck their forces
and then cut them down in waves.
-[grunts]
-[kettle clatters]
I appoint you, Yasuke, as kaishakunin.
This is my final command of you,
my friend.
What? I don't understand.
We could still fight back.
[lord] This is the only way
to save Ranmaru.
No, there is no honor in this.
-[wood cracks]
-[gasps]
[flames crackling]
[battle clamor outside]
[Nobunaga] Thank you, Yasuke.
[sword plunges]
-[gasps]
-[grunting]
[trembling breaths, grunting]
[gasping] What are you waiting for?
[groaning]
[yells in Japanese] Do it! Do it!
[yells]
[gasps, panting]
[birds chirping]
[grunts, groans]
[heaves]
-[retching, coughing]
-[splashing]
[clears throat]
[gentle music plays]
[grunts]
[children laughing]
Over here!
Yassan! Over here!
Whoa! [laughs]
[all] Thanks!
[no audible dialogue]
-[birds chirping]
-[koto music playing]
[footsteps approaching]
[drink pours]
[woman singing ethereal tune]
-[shouts]
-[patrons gasp]
Yassan!
-[grunts]
-[patrons gasp]
I almost landed my attack this time.
[Yasuke groans]
Stop bothering me.
I don't care.
Ichiro, I told you, no training in my bar.
You're scaring away the customers.
-[groaning]
-[glass shatters]
[Ichiro] How do you
grow your hair like that?
Where do you come from?
How did you get here?
Who taught you how to fight?
Can they teach me?
Can you teach me?
I wanna fight in battles
like the great samurai warriors before me.
I will succeed where they failed
and defeat the Daimyo.
[Yasuke] Mm.
A true warrior,
above all else, prays for peace.
Not war.
[Ichiro] War brings peace.
Peace brings freedom.
-[Yasuke steps onto boat]
-[gentle splashing]
[bird screeches]
[Ichiro] Hyah! Ha! Hah!
I will save the land from the evil Daimyo.
Who am I?
I'm the greatest warrior in all the land.
-Huah! [gasps]
-[man] Shut up. Stay right there!
[grunts softly]
[panting]
[grunts, groans]
[chuckles softly]
[straining]
[screaming]
[assailant laughing]
-[Ichiro] Ow!
-[thud]
Who goes there?
-[victim groaning]
-[Ichiro gasps]
[panting]
[grunts]
[both laughing]
-[sword plunges]
-[victim screams]
-[overlapping chatter]
-[Ichiro panting]
[woman] Practicing your swordplay again?
[Ichiro] Practice? I'm a master.
Master? Of what?
Hey, Ichiro. Fight any bad guys today?
Yep. Two soldiers outside the village.
Had them running scared.
-[sighs] Those soldiers are dangerous.
-I'm dangerous too.
-[chuckles] It's that samurai kid.
-I'm not a kid!
Yes, you are!
Can anyone help?
Whatever you can spare.
Mercy.
[gasps]
[chuckles]
Thank you!
[boy] Ichiro!
Get him!
[grunting]
Ah! [groans]
Hey! Come back here. Damn it!
[Ichiro panting]
[door opens]
[sighs]
Take off that silly mask.
A samurai never shows his face.
[girl] Ichiro,
I've already seen your face.
So, Mr. Samurai,
did you finally land an attack on Yassan?
No, but I came really close this time.
I approached from his blind side,
but he felt me coming.
I'll be better next time. [grunts]
[chuckling] I know you will.
Here, you try.
[grunts softly] I don't know.
It's okay.
You'll get your strength back soon enough.
[shimmering sound]
-[grunting]
-[shimmering]
[girl shouts]
Ah!
[gasps] My bokken.
[sighs]
Yassan gave me this.
I'm so sorry. I--
I don't know what happened.
Saki, are you all right?
I'm okay, Mother.
You're on fire.
Here, take this.
[sighs]
What happened?
Saki was holding it,
and it just split in two.
How will I train?
[Saki] What's wrong, Mother?
I think it's time
I take you to see the doctor.
But you always said
the doctor was a great journey away.
I like it here with my friends.
There will be no discussion on this.
-How long is the journey?
-[sighs]
A week on foot.
Yassan could get you there
in a day or two.
The Black boatsman?
Yes. He will be your guide,
and I will be your protection.
[chuckles lightly]
A child who thinks he's a samurai.
I will be one, one day.
[overlapping chatter, laughter]
-[laughing]
-[door opens]
Huh?
-[grunts softly]
-[gasps]
Vodka.
Uh…
What's that?
I'm looking for someone.
A woman with child.
A little girl.
Well, there's plenty
of women and children here.
[sniffs]
[singing indistinctly]
Yeah, sometimes they piss themselves
whenever they get too drunk.
Wait, no drink?
Come with me.
We have some fun.
[muttering, chuckling]
Me?
-Uh…
-Ah-- [grunts]
Uh…
I guess that's a vodka.
[lord] What are you waiting for?
[yells in Japanese] Do it!
[sighs]
[groans softly]
Huh?
[sighs]
An empty bottle. I've failed you.
[water flowing]
[man] Black boatsman!
What do you have for us today?
-[man 2] Lunch.
-[man 1 chuckling] Oh…
[man 1] Mm.
Next time, Black boatsman.
Next time.
[slow, expectant music plays]
[slow footsteps approach]
[Ichiro shouts, grunts]
[thud]
How did I do, Yassan?
Hmm. You would have
done better with your bokken.
I'm sorry. It split in two.
I made that myself. You're not
strong enough to split it in two.
-I didn't break it!
-[Saki's mother] Black boatsman.
This little one here
says you can help my daughter.
My name is Ichika.
I sing here sometimes.
Yes, I know who you are.
You have a… [hesitates]
…lovely voice.
Thank you.
-[Yasuke] You have a daughter?
-Yes.
That's who broke my bokken.
My daughter has grown very ill.
We must travel upstream
a few days' journey
for her to be cared for.
The village here
has a doctor who can provide care.
-There's no need to travel upstream.
-This is a special doctor.
If we don't go, she will die.
[Yasuke] She will die if we go.
No one returns from the north.
The journey would be suicide.
The warring territory is too dangerous.
The risk of the journey
is worth saving her life.
Just take her to the village doctor.
[Ichiro grunting]
You have no honor!
You have no idea what honor is, boy.
Honor is not willingly
giving up your life.
Please, Yassan, save her.
I said it's too dangerous.
-[seabirds calling]
-[mellow music playing]
[man] You will love what we brought.
These items come from far and wide.
You will be the only man on this side
of the world to claim such treasures.
[Nobunaga] Ranmaru.
What do you think?
I think it is beautiful, my lord.
I'll take it. Show me more.
What did you say, boy?
You tell me I have no honor?
You will pay for your insolence.
[Yasuke, in Japanese] Wait!
[in English] What honor is there
in striking down a child?
What's going on here?
I shall stop this at once.
Wait. This could be interesting.
Of course.
You dare speak to me?
You allow your servant to speak?
I apologize for his slippery tongue.
He should know his place, shut his mouth.
-[people gasp]
-[Yasuke] Leave the boy alone.
[merchant mutters nervously]
[chuckles]
Guess I'll have
to shut your mouth for you.
-[bystander] Get back, get back!
-[crowd murmurs]
[mellow electronic music playing]
[swordsman grunting]
[both grunting]
[gasps, groans]
-[both grunting]
-[onlookers clamor]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[light applause]
[merchant, nervously]
I am so sorry, Lord Nobunaga.
He will not go unpunished.
No need. He fought well.
A man deserves to be clean. Wash him.
Why is he not clean?
It is not dirt.
It is the color of his skin, my lord.
Did you ink your skin black?
No, I was born with black skin.
You were born with black skin?
[Yasuke] Yes.
Interesting. What is your name?
Eusebio Ibrahimo Baloi.
[people gasp in confusion]
Eu-- I--
Eusebio Ibrahimo Baloi.
[chuckling nervously] I--
I apologize for his rudeness.
The Yao people have a… [hesitates]
…strong cultural identity.
Hmm. Yao.
How about Yasuke?
I like him.
I'll take him too.
[Ichika] Make sure you have everything.
If we leave now, we can avoid the patrols.
[hushed] Mother. Someone is here.
You're right to leave now.
Patrols are light at this time.
It's wise to gain ground before dawn.
Is Yassan taking us, Mother?
Yes.
He is.
[overlapping murmurs]
[grunting lightly]
Beautiful land and home.
Lord Nobunaga shows favor.
Impressive, especially
for an outsider such as yourself.
-You were there that day.
-Indeed. You saved my little brother here.
For that, you have my gratitude.
Where I'm from, it's everyone's
duty to protect the children of the land.
-You're a samurai, yes?
-Onna Bugeisha.
[Yasuke] Is it common in this country for
a woman to gain such a high military rank?
[woman] No. No, it is not.
[Yasuke] Impressive.
[woman] Nobunaga awards
those who have proven themselves.
As you can attest.
You could have defended
your brother yourself. Why didn't you?
The code of the samurai forbids me
to interfere when honor is challenged.
My brother made a grave mistake.
What you did
was honorable in its own right.
You have my respect.
And whose respect do I have?
I am Natsumaru.
And what do they call you,
the samurai that was once a servant?
Yasuke.
[gasps, sighs]
[lapping water]
[Ichika] You snore.
Hm-- What's her name?
Saki. She's gotten worse
in the past few weeks.
Does she always sweat like this?
The sweating is new.
You should get more rest.
The boy wants to be a great warrior.
He looks up to you.
Why? Who are you?
I'm just a boatsman.
Nothing special about me.
He's just impatient to become a man.
Well, I've seen the way
you move to avoid his attacks.
I hear the things you say,
the way you yell out in your sleep,
like a man haunted by his past.
The necklace you wear.
That symbol is familiar.
I-I've seen it before.
-[Ichika] Why are you doing this?
-Doing what?
Helping us. Why did you change your mind?
[Yasuke] One village.
[Ichika] And what does that mean?
[Yasuke] Where I'm from, every man
and woman cares for every child.
It is our duty
to make sure every child is safe.
-[Saki coughing]
-[Ichika] It's okay.
[Yasuke] I've seen many illnesses
but nothing like this.
She's a special child.
She requires special care.
That is all you need to know.
-[tinkling sound]
-Huh?
Why are you stopping?
I am not stopping.
[mellow music playing]
[whooshing]
[robot] He's Black.
We can see that.
[robot] I thought you were
the only Black man in Japan.
[chuckles] Apparently not.
[robot] Are you two related?
[man] Shut up, scrap metal.
[woman] He's kinda cute for an old man.
[robot] Your attraction
to him is illogical.
[snaps]
The child, Chernyy.
Why are you here for this child?
So be it, Chernyy.
[sighs deeply]
So be it,
indeed.
[in Japanese] No honor to be had here.
Only pain and blood.
-[in English] What was that?
-He just spoke Japanese.
The Black man spoke Japanese?
Yes. I spoke Japanese.
You speak Japanese
and recite ancient proverbs.
You must have lived a good life.
[grunts]
[Yasuke grunts]
[Yasuke panting]
[both grunting]
[rhythmic music playing]
[exclaims]
[grunts]
[growling]
[low roar]
[snarls]
[Ichika grunts]
[Ichika shouts]
[Saki gasps]
-Mother!
-[groaning]
[growls, snarling]
[yells] Leave us alone!
[Yasuke straining]
[energy blasting]
[splashing]
["Between Memories"
by Flying Lotus playing]
[girl laughing]
♪ I want in, not waiting ♪
♪ We're out to leave now ♪
♪ Don't worry 'bout the weather
We're setting out together ♪
♪ I want in, not waiting ♪
♪ We're out to leave now ♪
♪ Don't worry 'bout the weather
We're setting out together ♪
[female vocalizing]
[indistinct chatter]
-[female vocalizing]
-♪ Come on ♪
[girl laughing]
♪ Come on ♪